# Hybrid Parsimony for AutoML

## Overview

This repository contains an implementation of Genetic Algorithms, Particle Swarm Optimization (PSO), and Hybrid Parsimony for Automated Machine Learning (AutoML). These algorithms aim to optimize the feature selection and hyperparameter tuning process in machine learning workflows. For detailed theoretical background, refer to this [scientific paper](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231223009633).

## Structure

The project is organized into the following directories:

- **datasets/**: Contains all datasets required for training and testing the models.
- **GA/**: Contains the implementation of the Genetic Algorithm for parsimony (GAparisomny).
- **PSO/**: Contains the implementation of Particle Swarm Optimization (PSO).
- **HYB_parsimony/**: Contains the Hybrid Parsimony algorithm combining elements of GA and PSO.
- **results/**: Stores log files and plots generated by the algorithms.
- **testing/**: Includes three testing files, one for each algorithm (GA, PSO, and Hybrid).
- **dataprocessing.py**: Responsible for loading, processing, and storing datasets in the `datasets` folder.
- **model_eval.py**: Contains the `Evaluator` class used to evaluate and compare the performance of different models.

## Dependencies
This project requires the following Python packages:
- numpy
- pandas
- sklearn
- matplotlib
- pyDOE2
- concurrent.futures

You can install the necessary dependencies via pip:
```bash
pip install numpy pandas scikit-learn matplotlib pyDOE2
```

## Usage

To run the optimization algorithms and evaluate their performance:

1. **Prepare the Data**:
   - Execute `dataprocessing.py` script which will load the datasets in the `datasets/` directory.

2. **Configure Parameters**:
   - Adjust parameters in each algorithm's script according to your optimization needs.

3. **Run the Tests**:
   - Navigate to the root directory of the project.
   - Execute `main.py` to run the algorithms:
     ```bash
     python main.py
     ```

4. **Review Results**:
   - Check the terminal for output logs and plots.

## Testing

For individual testing of each algorithm, execute the following commands:
```bash
# Testing PSO
python -m testing.PSOAlgotesting

# Testing Genetic Algorithm
python -m testing.geneticAlgotesting

# Testing Hybrid Algorithm
python -m testing.HybridAlgotesting
```

These commands will evaluate the algorithms using predefined test cases or configurations.

## Contribution

Contributions to the project are welcome. To contribute:
- Fork the repository.
- Create a new branch for your feature.
- Commit your changes.
- Push to the branch.
- Submit a pull request.

